# AI-based-Croquet-player
## Overview
In this project, I used genetic algorithm method to determine the best possible path for a player to win the Croquet game. This game like many other games have different set of parameters which a player has to gauge to be able to win the game. These parameters can be considered as set of rules, environment of game, possible traps and associated randomness or noise. Many such parameters are not fully considered, evaluated by a player or aware about their exploitation to be able to find best possible path. General purpose (reason of study) of this project is to deeply understand application of evolutionary computation and how it can be applied to various fields to reach towards better solution, possible, previously unknown. This method can then be duplicated or referenced for application to other similar games. I tried generating a more generic code such that little tuning to reward function, input etc. can modify its application.
In this project my approach will be to identify and list most of these parameters are closely associate this theoretical approach to real life game. Using these parameters and method of evolutionary computation evolve the best path game plan for a player to be able to win in minimum time and high score. To fully understand the approach and evaluation of parameters I did critical analysis of the game and its rules.


### About Croquet Game
Croquet game is played internationally all over the world, different level tournaments are held annually across various countries. In the USA, three forms of the game are played, International Association Croquet, American Six Wicket Croquet and American Nine Wicket Croquet. All of these may use the same lawns and equipment except that Nine Wicket Croquet requires 9 hoops, known as wickets, and two pegs, or stakes. Figures 1 & 2 below shows the 7 and 9 hoops Croquet respectively. For this project I will be using American Nine Wicket Croquet. 
The objective (problem) of the game is to hit your ball(s) through the course of nine hoops in the right sequence in each direction and finish by hitting them against the peg or start point. The side which completes the course first with both balls wins [1]. This game can also be timed and whoever has more points in the end wins. Each time a ball is roqueted, the striker gets two bonus shots. When it is off the court or in the yard line area. It is to be placed before the next stroke on the yard line at the point where it left the court with a penalty [2]. 
